# Feature Exraction
- tranforming the features in the n data points to a new set of features, typically nonlinear.
- The new features are called basis functions., or \( \phi (x) \) functions.

## Fourier Transform notes
- When shifting a time signal, the frequency domain is also shifted.
    - However, the magnitude of the frequency domain is not changed because the signal is still the same.
    - This makes the Fourier Transform linear but not shift invariant.

## Approaches to feature extraction
- Kernel Methods, such as Gaussian RBF, Polynomial, and Sigmoid.
- intuition models such as cepstrum, wavelets, and Fourier Transform.

## Cepstral Features
- Cepstrum is the inverse Fourier Transform of the log magnitude of the Fourier Transform.
- \( C = |\mathcal{F}^{-1} \left[ \log \left( \left| \mathcal{F} \left( x \right) \right|^2 \right) \right] |^2\)
    - Interestingly, convolving the cepstrum of two signals is equivalent to adding the log magnitude of the Fourier Transform of the two signals, or \( C_1 * C_2 = \log \left( \left| \mathcal{F} \left( x_1 \right) \right|^2 \right) + \log \left( \left| \mathcal{F} \left( x_2 \right) \right|^2 \right) \)
- Cepstrum is used in speech recognition to separate the vocal tract and the vocal cords.

- Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC) are used in speech recognition.
    - The Mel scale is a perceptual scale of pitches.
    - The MFCC is the cepstrum of the log magnitude of the Mel-scaled Fourier Transform.
    - The MFCC is used in speech recognition because it is shift invariant and the human ear is more sensitive to changes in pitch than in amplitude.

## Edge Detection
- extracts region in a picture where the intensity changes rapidly, or gradients.
- SIFT: Scale-Invariant Feature Transform
    - SIFT is a feature extraction algorithm that extracts keypoints and their descriptors.
    - based on the idea of scale space, or the idea that the same object can be seen at different scales.
    - Basic Algo:
        - Compute a scale space transform of the image
        - Detect keypoints in the scale space (local extrema in the difference of Gaussians)
        - Descriptor summarizes the statistics of the image around each keypoint
        - Match keypoints between images
    - SIFT is used in object recognition, image stitching, and 3D reconstruction.
    - Interstingly, SIFT features dont typically lie along image edges.

### Recall: Signal REpresentation by Orthonormal Basis
- Recall that a signal can be represented by an orthonormal basis, or \( x = \sum_{i=1}^{n} \langle x, \phi_i \rangle \phi_i \)

## Sparse Coding/ Dictionary Learning
- a feature extraction technique that represents a signal as a linear combination of a few basis functions
- The best fictionary D is found by minimizing the error between the signal and the linear combination of the basiss function.
- The error is typically the L1 norm, or \( \min_{D} \left\| x - D \alpha \right\|_1 \)

## references
wikiepdia: featue extraction, cepstrum, mel-frequency cepstral coefficients, scale-invariant feature transform
scikit-learn: feature extraction
- https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/feature_extraction.html
- https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/feature_extraction.html#feature-extraction
